if you really want to know if real
estate's going to crash you need to find
the weakest link you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you in
today's video we're going to look at
that weakest link I want you to know
exactly what's going on with real estate
because it is a very mixed picture you
will find videos that do very very well
on YouTube they're going to tell you
real estate's going to crash tomorrow
real estate's going to crash the next
week it's already crashing it's gone
down 20% 50% 100% wait a second what
yeah anyway let's get to reality let's
actually break down what we have seen
what we are seeing at this time so that
we know the truth mortgage rates in the
US to drop to
5.5% in
2024 so where we are at at this time is
um definitely no question about it much
lower than where we had been in the last
little while so here is the chart you
can see it for yourself as we look at
this I think you know it's important to
just understand
6.63%
6.63% at this time coming off basically
8% okay so it is quite a bit lower and
you can see it's kind of flatlined in
the last little while um and and we'll
see what happens over the next you know
coming months the expectation is of you
know cutting interest rates and all that
so we'll see how it all comes to be but
that's what's going on in the United
States largely similar to other
countries
um but that's really the you know where
I want to start with this looking at the
you know percentage it all all depends
on you your circumstances your credit
rating where you live exactly you know
what kind of property there's many
factors but in general interest rates
without the FED funds rate coming down
the borrowing cost you you the
individual that has come down and that
is a good thing a good thing for the
economy in General that you know the
pressure is kind of being released High
borrowing costs have caused sales of
previously owned homes to slide to the
lowest level in nearly three decades you
look at these titles all the time lowest
sales the sales are crashing sales are
crashing low inventory now inventory has
been moving up what's going on well
there's less sales as soon as things get
more attractive we're going to see more
properties come on the market will they
be at the right price depends depends
how many start to come on the market
right now there's seemingly an
insatiable appetite for single family
homes in you know really nice areas that
hasn't changed and likely doesn't change
unless there's something catastrophic
where we have a problem is well we'll
save the interesting part for last but
certainly condominiums in places where
they just build so much and then
investors come in to scoop that up
that's that's a problem it's a problem
in some places anyway we need to find a
few pieces of information we need to
find vacancy rates which are a little
bit clouded and mystery often times we
need to find permits we need to find you
know any of the relevant data going on
basically in that economy itself very
localized once we know that then we can
address um you know is that a good
investment it's a very local thing you
can drive you know a half an hour and
it's a very different circumstance so
knowing that information is the first
step but borrowing costs are the number
one factor in determining where we will
go up or down there's no question about
that boring costs what about this this
lady right here the mayor of Toronto
congratulations look this is what she
said we're talking about you know
shortages High prices all these things
right in other words accepting that t
that the Toronto of 2034 will be a lot
different from the one we live in today
h what does that mean well that's
because getting will you know we're
going to have the accepting among other
things that the dream that has endured
for many generations that if you work
hard at a good job you can own your own
house with a patch of grass out front
and a mail box on the porch is dead at
least for anyone without generational
wealth is the quote that is the 1950s
and 60s concept that is so done I could
not believe my I read this over and over
again that you the individual work hard
each and every day you do what you can
so that you could afford that home so
you could be like you know one of these
old shows that you would see on TV where
they've got the single family home and
the nice
neighborhood and the the grass is all
manicured nicely you got the car out in
the
driveway everything is just fine and
dandy there was no concern of you know
not being able to afford it I mean the
the houses were
reasonable everything was reasonable
okay we didn't have you know uh the
Apple Pro that you need to take out a
mortgage to
get no but the basics if you just
measure just the basics it all made
sense today a very different world what
has changed from those many years ago up
until now is no question about it a
devaluation of the currency that has
being done intentionally in order to
separate the halves from the have knots
these politicians are insignificant the
mayor of a
city doesn't really do anything these
are not even puppets these are just
ponds a record high number of new condos
are going unsold in the greater Toronto
area unsold new condo inventory
increased 4.1% year-over-year in the
last quarter this is important okay
because it's not just in in this one
place I show you that just because you
know it's an extreme example of a city
that has has so many attractive points
to it oh you know all these people want
to come here prices are still low in
comparison to let's say a New York but
there's a lot more development that can
happen it's not overdeveloped at all so
they would say hey this is a great
opportunity let's get investment capital
in there when somebody wants to invest
in Canada they can do that in a few
cities and where we have seen a lot of
price acceleration has been Toronto of
course Vancouver
too but there's a problem you start
building too much you got an issue and
um this has been now a concern why are
we going to go out there and invest in a
very precarious time what's going on
with real estate right now interest
rates are too high the expectation is
that they'll come down so why would they
go get it now why not just wait that's
the circumstance we are in right now we
are in limbo we're in limbo if there's a
recession if there is a problem if there
is some sort
of you know issue that's not let's say
Mass failures and in depression scenario
whatever well then they're talking about
more rate Cuts we're talking about six
rate Cuts before the end of the year in
the United States that's what the market
believes that would be pretty extreme
they're basically pricing in the fact
that it's not going to be a soft Landing
it's going to be a hard
landing and as a result of that they're
going to cut interest rates what happens
risk assets start to go up and real
assets start to get more
attention that's what's going on keep
that in mind that is really the takeaway
if you appreciate this information hit
that thumbs up button I do appreciate
that
myself you would expect me to welcome
Wednesday's remarks by fed chairman
Jerome Powell that a rate reduction in
March is not the fed's base case that's
a quote the problem is that this was
handled in a way that's unnecessarily
robbing the Central Bank of policy
flexibility while lengthening its
already long list of recent
communication mishaps what happened here
Jerome Powell came out and had to say
March is not the base case for a rate
cut we don't know what's going to happen
and time will tell but I think it's
really important to address it okay when
I see this um you know they want greater
confidence they want to know inflation
is coming down and will it is it going
to be able to come down that remains to
be seen but they're going with their
stats they're giving us their data and
that is going to be the number one
factor for what happens with real estate
okay they are going
to basically move the big player are
going to move based on what happens with
the FED they're waiting and they're
seeing the expectation is that they'll
cut this year if that happens look go
going to be interesting let me tell you
markets are still pricing about six Cuts
over the course of this year this
suggests to us that they are pricing in
a policy error that means the way that
they're leaving interest rates at the
level they are right now is a mistake
that's what the market believes when we
talk about the market we are looking at
swaps we're looking at Futures these are
all you know these investors what they
love all you need to know is that
investors believe there's going to be a
lot of rate Cuts before the end of the
year that's something unusual the the
challenge here is that Whose advice do
we take do we take the market do we take
the investors or do we look at the jome
howls of the world and take what they
say at face value the market in this
respect is generally pretty accurate the
only problem though Jerome Powell you
know scratches his nose and you know the
market changes its mind very rapidly so
it's not
consistent that's the issue keep that in
mind
okay just basically just saying you know
what they're talking about with rate
Cuts buyers in Canada are starting to
venture back into the housing market
seeking to get ahead of any possible
shopping frenzy spurred by the expected
R cuts for the Bank of Canada an unusual
sales rally in December has stoked
speculation that the Canadian housing
market may start to heat up even more
we're in what's supposed to be like the
bottom quiet and activity starts picking
up
crazy I don't think that were the only
ones who have saved for a down payment
in the last 3 years it will go back to
be getting excited with the rates
getting lower and people are just going
to get a little crazy and going into a
buying
frenzy it's it's already crazy what was
happening was people people were lining
up outside of houses and then they would
just go in one at a time putting in an
offer what kind of world are we living
in just for a regular house some cases
these are talking you're talking about
50 80 100y old homes maybe they're
renovated a little bit this on that but
that's the circumstance that's the
Euphoria and we will get there
again what about a crash though I think
the biggest issue comes with commercial
real estate that's where the problem
lies why number one Mass vacancies in
many cases when we look at office when
we look at retail some places are well
doing you know they're doing pretty good
they're strong they're not what we saw
in 2020 but they withstood that damage
of 2020 businesses went bankrupt
but
overall not as many went bankrupt as was
expected because the government pumped
in a lot of cash knowing that we can
expect it again and what was the end
result of this was a devaluation of your
currency making prices higher prices
higher prices on everything so you can
expect more of that in the coming days
weeks and months commercial real estate
is in fact the weakest link I'll go into
that more in depth in other videos if
you want to know the truth you got to
understand the financial education that
I bring to you for free the money
gps.com click on that button that says
Compass this is a free financial
education short course that is purposely
built so that you can share that link
with your friends family co-workers and
so on because I don't get into anything
with the FED I don't talk about anything
of the depths of the you know the
Rothchild family none of that and it
does not link to my social media does
not link to any of my YouTube videos at
all it is pure Financial education made
super simple videos that are like a
minute five minutes like super short and
you go through the whole thing and you
get that Financial education you've got
to get that
foundation for yourself for your friends
family and you don't want to you know
necessarily share the regular YouTube
videos well then this is the thing the
money gps.com click on that Compass link
and that's the one I really appreciate
when you do that of course don't forget
to hit that thumbs up button and always
I want to see you back here tomorrow
take care